components/exo/wayland/README.md, before:

This directory contains exo-specific extensions to the Wayland protocol.

To begin with, we recommend this
[link](https://wayland-book.com/xdg-shell-basics/xdg-surface.html) for more
about wayland basics. The short summary is that:

* wl_surface is the compositing window primitive. It is capable of receiving a
  series of buffers representing contents. It only provides basic functionality.
  Other functionality like pip/decorations are implemented through extensions.
* It is possible to extend a wl_surface as xdg_surface via
  xdg_wm_base.get_surface. This extension is not permanent: it is possible to
  destroy and/or recreate the xdg_surface.
* Once an xdg_surface is created, it can be assigned a role: xdg_toplevel or
  xdg_popup.
* exo has extensions for each of these primitives that implement aura shell
  (ash) specific functionalities:
  * wl_surface is extended by zaura_surface
  * xdg_toplevel is extended by zaura_toplevel
  * xdg_popup is extended by zaura_popup

The wayland protocol is used to communicate between ash-chrome
(exo/wayland-server) and wayland clients. The lacros-chrome client is version
skewed from ash-chrome. As such, the protocol itself must be a stable API
surface. This has one main implication:

* It is not safe to remove any methods. This includes reverts of CLs that add
  methods.

This implication means we need to minimize risk of needing to revert CLs that
add methods. We thus add the following guidance:

* When adding a new interface method, create the exo (server) implementation
  and update its version in its own CL and merge that first.
* Then, in a separate CL, add a stub (empty) implementation on the client
  (ozone-wayland) side without updating the version. This is to avoid a problem
  when yet another protocol update is added on the client side while your are
  working on the client side implementation for your protocol update. If the
  client side change is simple enough, it's ok to skip to the next step.
* Finally, in a separate CL, follow up with the client changes that use the
  interface method. Thus, in the event that usage of the new interface causes
  bugs, the client-side change can be reverted without modifying the API surface
  itself.

Note that the following directories contain exo-specific extensions:

 * components/exo/wayland/protocol
 * third_party/wayland-protocols/unstable

Commit message:

WebRtcAudioSink: Stop on invalid configuration
(cherry picked from commit 340b7e300d380460a039a07b90f62d1febae9da5)

Bug: 1513170
Change-Id: Ia4ca55e9eafb81789b28b8b8c54e615ac28df633
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/5136295
Reviewed-by: Harald Alvestrand <hta@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Gustaf Ullberg <gustaf@chromium.org>
Cr-Original-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main@{#1239233}
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/5137661
Commit-Queue: Krishna Govind <govind@chromium.org>
Auto-Submit: Daniel Gagnon <dgagnon@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Jorge Lucangeli Obes <jorgelo@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Krishna Govind <govind@chromium.org>
Owners-Override: Krishna Govind <govind@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/6045@{#1669}
Cr-Branched-From: 905e8bdd32d891451d94d1ec71682e989da2b0a1-refs/heads/main@{#1204232}

Automatic update from google3

Automatic update for 2023-12-20 UTC

Change-Id: I1853ad03696c5022bfaef5924c0d4484d5b42340
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/5140429
Commit-Queue: PKI Metadata Updates Bot <mdb.chrome-pki-metadata-release-jobs@google.com>
Bot-Commit: PKI Metadata Updates Bot <mdb.chrome-pki-metadata-release-jobs@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/6045@{#1668}
Cr-Branched-From: 905e8bdd32d891451d94d1ec71682e989da2b0a1-refs/heads/main@{#1204232}

components/exo/wayland/README.md, after:

This directory contains exo-specific extensions to the Wayland protocol.

To begin with, we recommend this
[link](https://wayland-book.com/xdg-shell-basics/xdg-surface.html) for more
about wayland basics. The short summary is that:

* wl_surface is the compositing window primitive. It is capable of receiving a
  series of buffers representing contents. It only provides basic functionality.
  Other functionality like pip/decorations are implemented through extensions.
* It is possible to extend a wl_surface as xdg_surface via
  xdg_wm_base.get_surface. This extension is not permanent: it is possible to
  destroy and/or recreate the xdg_surface.
* Once an xdg_surface is created, it can be assigned a role: xdg_toplevel or
  xdg_popup.
* exo has extensions for each of these primitives that implement aura shell
  (ash) specific functionalities:
  * wl_surface is extended by zaura_surface
  * xdg_toplevel is extended by zaura_toplevel
  * xdg_popup is extended by zaura_popup

The wayland protocol is used to communicate between ash-chrome
(exo/wayland-server) and wayland clients. The lacros-chrome client is version
skewed from ash-chrome. As such, the protocol itself must be a stable API
surface. This has two main implications:

1. It is not safe to remove any methods. This includes reverts of CLs that add
  methods.
2. The version update must be atomic. No two (or more) CLs should update the
  protocol file to the same version.

This implication means we need to minimize risk of a) needing to revert CLs that
add methods, b) Geritt auto-resolving conflict of two independent CLs that
update to the same version, and land them.  We thus add the following guidance:

* When adding a new interface method, create the exo (server) implementation
  and update its version in its own CL and merge that first.
* The code should use _SINCE_VERSION macro to specify the version you updated
  to, e.g.:

        constexpr int kAuraShellVersion = ZAURA_SHELL_WINDOW_CORNERS_RADII_SINCE_VERSION;

  This will prevent Geritt from automacially resolving the conflict.
* Then, in a separate CL, add a stub (empty) implementation on the client
  (ozone-wayland) side without updating the version. This is to avoid a problem
  when yet another protocol update is added on the client side while your are
  working on the client side implementation for your protocol update. If the
  client side change is simple enough, it's ok to skip to the next step.
* Finally, in a separate CL, follow up with the client changes that use the
  interface method. Thus, in the event that usage of the new interface causes
  bugs, the client-side change can be reverted without modifying the API surface
  itself.

Note that the following directories contain exo-specific extensions:

 * components/exo/wayland/protocol
 * third_party/wayland-protocols/unstable
