net/cert/README.md, before:

# Certificate verification

This directory contains the core code for verifying server certificates.
Limited support is also included for verifying client certificates, but only to
the extent they chain to a server-supplied set of issuers.

Server certificate verification emphasizes the standards/policy for
publicly trusted certificates:

 * Basic X.509 digital certificates
 * RFC 5280
 * CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements
 * CRLSets
 * Certificate Transparency

The core logic of certificate verification is implemented synchronously, as it
may need to integrate with synchronous OS-provided APIs. This synchronous
implementation is performed through the [CertVerifyProc](cert_verify_proc.h)
interface, which is a thread-agnostic/thread-safe interface that can be used to
verify certificates synchronously on arbitrary worker threads.

The top-level interface for verifying server certificates is the asynchronous
[CertVerifier](cert_verifier.h).

[MultiThreadedCertVerifier](multi_threaded_cert_verifier.h) is an
implementation of `CertVerifier` that executes `CertVerifyProc` synchronously
on worker threads.

[CertVerifyProcBuiltin](cert_verify_proc_builtin.h) is a cross-platform
implementation which implements path building internally. It only relies on
platform integrations for obtaining the trusted root certificates.

The other `CertVerifyProc` implementations are for integrating
with the underlying platform's certificate verification library. For example,
[CertVerifyProcWin](cert_verify_proc_win.h) delegates
certificate verification to Windows' CryptoAPI.

Browser-specific policy checks are applied even when using the platform's
certificate verifier. For instance, a certificate chain the OS deemed valid
could ultimately be rejected by `CertVerifyProc` since it independently
checks the chain for CRLSet revocation, use of weak keys, Baseline Requirements
validity, name constraints, weak signature algorithms, and more.

Commit message:

[M117] android: Sync the date on emulator during AVD start.
This CL cherry-pick the following two CLs:
* https://crrev.com/c/4902945
* https://crrev.com/c/4968706

Bug: 1488458
Change-Id: I3cbe356d7ba9e12a3c36e15b20950076d38e9385
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/4949090
Reviewed-by: Andrew Grieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Haiyang Pan <hypan@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/5938@{#1621}
Cr-Branched-From: 2b50cb4bcc2318034581a816714d9535dc38966d-refs/heads/main@{#1181205}

[M117] Disable TimeFormatTest.RelativeDate

https://crrev.com/c/4949090 is blocked because this test keeps failing
on the android-nougat-x86-rel tryjob

As Nougat has been deprecated since M119, it makes more sense to disable
the test on M117 branch.

Bug: 1488458
Change-Id: Ia4b8afae87a0102f0539a0bfde56f1227dcea8c2
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/4990152
Reviewed-by: Scott Violet <sky@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Haiyang Pan <hypan@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/5938@{#1620}
Cr-Branched-From: 2b50cb4bcc2318034581a816714d9535dc38966d-refs/heads/main@{#1181205}

net/cert/README.md, after:

# Certificate verification

This directory contains the core code for verifying server certificates.
Limited support is also included for verifying client certificates, but only to
the extent they chain to a server-supplied set of issuers.

Server certificate verification emphasizes the standards/policy for
publicly trusted certificates:

 * Basic X.509 digital certificates
 * RFC 5280
 * CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements
 * CRLSets
 * Certificate Transparency

The core logic of certificate verification is implemented synchronously, as it
may need to integrate with synchronous OS-provided APIs. This synchronous
implementation is performed through the [CertVerifyProc](cert_verify_proc.h)
interface, which is a thread-agnostic/thread-safe interface that can be used to
verify certificates synchronously on arbitrary worker threads.

The top-level interface for verifying server certificates is the asynchronous
[CertVerifier](cert_verifier.h).

[MultiThreadedCertVerifier](multi_threaded_cert_verifier.h) is an
implementation of `CertVerifier` that executes `CertVerifyProc` synchronously
on worker threads.

[CertVerifyProcBuiltin](cert_verify_proc_builtin.h) is a cross-platform
implementation which implements path building internally. It only relies on
platform integrations for obtaining user and enterprise configured trusted root
certificates. The publicly trusted root certificates are supplied by the
[Chrome Root Store](../data/ssl/chrome_root_store/README.md).

The other `CertVerifyProc` implementations are for integrating
with the underlying platform's certificate verification library.
There are 2 platform implementations:
[CertVerifyProcAndroid](cert_verify_proc_android.h) and
[CertVerifyProcIOS](cert_verify_proc_ios.h).

Browser-specific policy checks are applied even when using the platform's
certificate verifier. For instance, a certificate chain the OS deemed valid
could ultimately be rejected by `CertVerifyProc` since it independently
checks the chain for CRLSet revocation, use of weak keys, Baseline Requirements
validity, name constraints, weak signature algorithms, and more.
