tools/crates/README.md, before:

This directory contains tools for importing third-party Rust crates and
constructing BUILD.gn files from them.

# Depending on third-party crates

The `//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` crate defines the set of crates
depended on from first-party code. Any transitive dependencies will be found
from those listed there. The file is a subset of a
[standard `Cargo.toml` file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html),
but only listing the `[dependencies]` section.

To use a third-party crate "bar" version 3 from first party code, add the
following to `//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` in `[dependencies]`:
```toml
[dependencies]
bar = "3"
```

To enable a feature "spaceships" in the crate, change the entry in
`//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` to include the feature:
```toml
[dependencies]
bar = { version = "3", features = [ "spaceships" ] }
```

# Generating `BUILD.gn` files for third-party crates

To generate `BUILD.gn` files for all third-party crates, and find missing
transitive dependencies to download, use the `gnrt` tool:
1. Change directory to the root `src/` dir of Chromium.
1. Build `gnrt` to run on host machine: `cargo build --release --manifest-path tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir out/gnrt`.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `gen` action: `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen`.

This will generate a `BUILD.gn` file for each third-party crate. The `BUILD.gn`
file changes will be visible in `git status` and can be added with `git add`.

# Downloading missing third-party crates

To download crate "foo", at version 4.2.3:
1. Change directory to the root src/ dir of Chromium.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `download` action: e.g. `out/Default/gnrt download
   --security-critical=yes foo 4.2.3`

This will download the crate and unpack it into
`//third_party/rust/foo/v4/crate`. The entire `v4` directory, which includes the
`crate` subdirectory as well as a generated `README.chromium` file, should be
added to the repository with `git add third_party/rust/foo/v4`.

Once all the crates are downloaded and `gnrt gen` completes, a CL can be
uploaded to go through third-party review.

# Patching third-party crates.

You may patch a crate in tree, but save any changes made into a diff file in
a `patches/` directory for the crate. The diff file should be generated by
`git-format-patch` each new patch numbered consecutively so that they can be
applied in order. For example, these files might exist if the "foo" crate was
patched with a couple of changes:

```
//third_party/rust/foo/v4/patches/0001-Edit-the-Cargo-toml.diff
//third_party/rust/foo/v4/patches/0002-Other-changes.diff
```

# Updating existing third-party crates

To update a crate "foo" to the latest version you must just re-import it at this
time. To update from version "1.2.0" to "1.3.2":
1. Build `gnrt` before making any changes to `//third_party/rust`: `cargo build
   --release --manifest-path tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir
   out/gnrt`.
1. Remove the `//third_party/rust/foo/v1/crate` directory, which contains the
   upstream code.
1. Re-download the crate at the new version with `out/gnrt/release/gnrt download
   foo 1.3.2`.
1. If there are any, re-apply local patches with
   `for i in $(find third_party/rust/foo/v1/patches/*); do patch -p1 < $i; done`
1. Run `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen` to re-generate all third-party `BUILD.gn` files.
1. Build `all_rust` to verify things are working.

# Directory structure for third-party crates

The directory structure for a crate "foo" version 3.4.2 is:
```
//third_party/
    rust/
        foo/
            v3/
                BUILD.gn  (generated by gnrt)
                README.chromium
                crate/
                    Cargo.toml
                    src/
                    ...etc...
                patches/
                    0001-Edit-the-Cargo-toml.diff
                    0002-Other-changes.diff
```

# Generating `BUILD.gn` files for stdlib crates

To generate `BUILD.gn` files for the crates with the `gnrt` tool:
1. Change directory to the root `src/` dir of Chromium.
1. Build `gnrt` to run on host machine: `cargo build --release --manifest-path
   tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir out/gnrt`.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `gen` action: `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen --for-std`.

This will generate the `//build/rust/std/rules/BUILD.gn` file, with the changes
visible in `git status` and can be added with `git add`.

## Generating `BUILD.gn` files for stdlib crates when rolling Rust

The above instructions generate GN rules from the installed Rust toolchain in
//third_party/rust-toolchain. If you don't have an installed toolchain yet (or
it's the wrong revision), you can generate from another Rust source root, such
as in `//third_party/rust_src/src` by adding a value to the `--for-std`
argument:
1. Checkout the git revision you want to generate from in
   `//third_party/rust_src/src`. This can be done with
   `tools/clang/scripts/upload_revision.py  --no-git --skip-clang
   --rust-git-hash DESIRED_GIT_HASH`.
1. Update dependencies for the stdlib with `tools/rust/build_rust.py
   --update-deps`.
1. Build `gnrt` to run on host machine: `cargo build --release --manifest-path
   tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir out/gnrt`.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `gen` action: `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen
   --for-std=third_party/rust_src/src`.

Commit message:

[M117] android: Sync the date on emulator during AVD start.
This CL cherry-pick the following two CLs:
* https://crrev.com/c/4902945
* https://crrev.com/c/4968706

Bug: 1488458
Change-Id: I3cbe356d7ba9e12a3c36e15b20950076d38e9385
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/4949090
Reviewed-by: Andrew Grieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Haiyang Pan <hypan@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/5938@{#1621}
Cr-Branched-From: 2b50cb4bcc2318034581a816714d9535dc38966d-refs/heads/main@{#1181205}

[M117] Disable TimeFormatTest.RelativeDate

https://crrev.com/c/4949090 is blocked because this test keeps failing
on the android-nougat-x86-rel tryjob

As Nougat has been deprecated since M119, it makes more sense to disable
the test on M117 branch.

Bug: 1488458
Change-Id: Ia4b8afae87a0102f0539a0bfde56f1227dcea8c2
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/4990152
Reviewed-by: Scott Violet <sky@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Haiyang Pan <hypan@google.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/branch-heads/5938@{#1620}
Cr-Branched-From: 2b50cb4bcc2318034581a816714d9535dc38966d-refs/heads/main@{#1181205}

tools/crates/README.md, after:

This directory contains tools for importing third-party Rust crates and
constructing BUILD.gn files from them.

# Depending on third-party crates

The `//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` crate defines the set of crates
depended on from first-party code. Any transitive dependencies will be found
from those listed there. The file is a subset of a
[standard `Cargo.toml` file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html),
but only listing the `[dependencies]` section.

To use a third-party crate "bar" version 3 from first party code, add the
following to `//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` in `[dependencies]`:
```toml
[dependencies]
bar = "3"
```

To enable a feature "spaceships" in the crate, change the entry in
`//third_party/rust/third_party.toml` to include the feature:
```toml
[dependencies]
bar = { version = "3", features = [ "spaceships" ] }
```

# Generating `BUILD.gn` files for third-party crates

To generate `BUILD.gn` files for all third-party crates, and find missing
transitive dependencies to download, use the `gnrt` tool:

1. Change directory to the root `src/` dir of Chromium.
1. Run `vpython3 ./tools/crates/run_gnrt.py gen` to build and run gnrt with the `gen` action.

Or, to directly build gnrt:

1. Change directory to the root `src/` dir of Chromium.
1. Build `gnrt` to run on host machine: `cargo build --release --manifest-path tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir out/gnrt`.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `gen` action: `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen`.

This will generate a `BUILD.gn` file for each third-party crate. The `BUILD.gn`
file changes will be visible in `git status` and can be added with `git add`.

# Downloading missing third-party crates

To download crate "foo", at version 4.2.3:
1. Change directory to the root src/ dir of Chromium.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `download` action: e.g. `out/Default/gnrt download
   --security-critical=yes foo 4.2.3`

This will download the crate and unpack it into
`//third_party/rust/foo/v4/crate`. The entire `v4` directory, which includes the
`crate` subdirectory as well as a generated `README.chromium` file, should be
added to the repository with `git add third_party/rust/foo/v4`.

Once all the crates are downloaded and `gnrt gen` completes, a CL can be
uploaded to go through third-party review.

# Patching third-party crates.

You may patch a crate in tree, but save any changes made into a diff file in
a `patches/` directory for the crate. The diff file should be generated by
`git-format-patch` each new patch numbered consecutively so that they can be
applied in order. For example, these files might exist if the "foo" crate was
patched with a couple of changes:

```
//third_party/rust/foo/v4/patches/0001-Edit-the-Cargo-toml.diff
//third_party/rust/foo/v4/patches/0002-Other-changes.diff
```

# Updating existing third-party crates

To update a crate "foo" to the latest version you must just re-import it at this
time. To update from version "1.2.0" to "1.3.2":
1. Build `gnrt` before making any changes to `//third_party/rust`: `cargo build
   --release --manifest-path tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir
   out/gnrt`.
1. Remove the `//third_party/rust/foo/v1/crate` directory, which contains the
   upstream code.
1. Re-download the crate at the new version with `out/gnrt/release/gnrt download
   foo 1.3.2`.
1. If there are any, re-apply local patches with
   `for i in $(find third_party/rust/foo/v1/patches/*); do patch -p1 < $i; done`
1. Run `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen` to re-generate all third-party `BUILD.gn` files.
1. Build `all_rust` to verify things are working.

# Directory structure for third-party crates

The directory structure for a crate "foo" version 3.4.2 is:
```
//third_party/
    rust/
        foo/
            v3/
                BUILD.gn  (generated by gnrt)
                README.chromium
                crate/
                    Cargo.toml
                    src/
                    ...etc...
                patches/
                    0001-Edit-the-Cargo-toml.diff
                    0002-Other-changes.diff
```

# Generating `BUILD.gn` files for stdlib crates

### Simple way:

Run `tools/rust/gnrt_stdlib.py`.

### Longer way

This requires Rust to be installed and available in your system, typically
through [https://rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs).

To generate `BUILD.gn` files for the crates with the `gnrt` tool:
1. Change directory to the root `src/` dir of Chromium.
1. Build `gnrt` to run on host machine: `cargo build --release --manifest-path
   tools/crates/gnrt/Cargo.toml --target-dir out/gnrt`.
1. Ensure you have a checkout of the Rust source tree in `third_party/rust-src`
   which can be done with `tools/rust/build_rust.py --sync-for-gnrt`.
1. Run `gnrt` with the `gen` action:
   `out/gnrt/release/gnrt gen --for-std third_party/rust-src`.

This will generate the `//build/rust/std/rules/BUILD.gn` file, with the changes
visible in `git status` and can be added with `git add`.
